Dear Ms Davies,

I  refer to our previous correspondence in relation to the above complaints
received by the Data Protection Commission (DPC).


The  DPC  notes  that  First  Ireland  Risk Management Ltd in this instance
claims a legitimate interest lawful basis for sending direct marketing. You
should  be  aware that the ePrivacy Regulations apply in the first instance
to direct marketing by electronic means, i.e. by telephone, by email and by
SMS.  Where  the  sending  of such direct electronic marketing requires the
consent,  or  soft  opt-in  consent,  of  a  user  pursuant to the ePrivacy
Regulations,  a  controller  may  not  seek to substitute that consent with
another  lawful basis under the GDPR. Where a legitimate interest may exist
for  a  function  such as order fulfilment, that lawful basis therefore may
not  be used as a substitute for the requirement to obtain consent in order
to  meet  the  standard  of  Regulation  13(11)  for  the sending of direct
electronic marketing.

First  Ireland  Risk  Management Ltd as the data controller needs to ensure
that  customers  are clearly and distinctly given the opportunity to object
to the use of their details ‘in an easy manner’ and at the time the details
are collected.

We will now conclude this complaint file with a warning.


Should  the  DPC  receive  any  future  complaint  about unsolicited direct
marketing  communications  sent byFirst Ireland Risk Management Ltd without
consent  and/or  the  inclusion  of  a valid opt out, the complaint will be
fully  investigated and First Ireland Risk Management Ltd may be prosecuted
by  the  DPC  where  there is deemed to be a repeat offence of this nature,
Furthermore,  should  the  complainant  listed  in  this complaints receive
further  unsolicited  direct  marketing  communications because their email
address/telephone  number has not been properly opted-out or as a result of
an  old database of email addresses/telephone numbers being re-used, such a
second offence may also give rise to prosecution in respect of both the new
unsolicited  direct marketing communications and in respect of the previous
marketing communications sent to the complainant.


Therefore, we advise that First Ireland Risk Management Ltd ensures that it
is  aware  of the law in this area and take whatever steps are necessary to
ensure full compliance.


This  complaint  will  now be concluded based on this formal warning and on
the  basis  that the complainant's email address and phone number are fully
removed in relation to receiving direct marketing communications from First
Ireland Risk Management Ltd.


Yours sincerely


Denise Coogan